README.md, before:

# Welcome

This project is a simple example of how to work with [Neo4j](https://neo4j.com), [Next.js](https://nextjs.org), and the map visualization library [React Leaflet](https://react-leaflet.js.org) within a [Docker](https://www.docker.com) environment.

All you need to have installed on your system to run this example is [Docker](https://www.docker.com).

If you do not have [Docker](https://www.docker.com) installed on your development system, you can download and install the freely available [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

## Getting started

**IMPORTANT: Before starting this project, please be sure to copy `nextjs/.env.sample` to `nextjs/.env.local`**

To spin up your Dockerized Neo4j and Next.js project:

```sh
# Use the existing Docker images on your system
$ npm run dev

# OR #

# Force a clean build to ensure your instances are using the latest code
$ npm run dev:clean
```

### Neo4j

Once you have started your Dockerized project, you can access the Neo4j Browser at [http://localhost:7474/browser/](http://localhost:7474/browser/) - using the following credentials:

- Username: `neo4j`
- Password: `letmein`

![neo4j/v4.x.x/__screenshots__/neo4j-browser-login.png](neo4j/v4.x.x/__screenshots__/neo4j-browser-login.png)

Once you've logged in, you are free to explore your Dockerized Neo4j instance.

![neo4j/v4.x.x/__screenshots__/neo4j-browser-example.png](neo4j/v4.x.x/__screenshots__/neo4j-browser-example.png)

#### OPTIONAL: Use Cypher text file(s) to seed your database

If you would like to have your database load a pre-defined series of Cypher commands - such as the example at `neo4j/v4.x.x/__seed__/db.cypher` - simply uncomment the following in `neo4j/v4.x.x/Dockerfile`:

```sh
# neo4j/v4.x.x/Dockerfile

...
# COPY ./__seed__/*.cypher /var/lib/neo4j/import/
...

```

This will ensure that your Cypher file(s) are copied and then processed by the `neo4j/v4.x.x/wrapper.sh` script when building your Neo4j instance.

### Next.js

An example [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) application has been created so that we can use the [Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql-manual/current/) to create our GraphQL API.

Once you have started your Dockerized project, you can access the Next.js GraphQL API at [http://localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql)

#### EXAMPLE: Create a query to verify our GraphQL API is online

Let's use the `ping` query that we have defined in our GraphQL schema:

```gql
{
  ping {
    message
    timestamp
  }
}
```

You should see a response similar to:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "ping": {
      "message": "Pong",
      "timestamp": "2021-09-05T02:23:55.000Z"
    }
  }
}
```

![nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-01-ping.png](nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-01-ping.png)

#### EXAMPLE: Create a new User

To create a new `User` using our GraphQL API, we will use the `createUsers` mutation that was automatically created for us with the [Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql-manual/current/):

```gql
mutation {
  createUsers(input: { username: "therobbrennan" }) {
    users {
      username
      created
    }
  }
}
```

You should see a response similar to:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "createUsers": {
      "users": [
        {
          "username": "therobbrennan",
          "created": "2021-09-05T02:24:54.078Z"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

![nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-02-create-user.png](nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-02-create-user.png)

**IMPORTANT: This mutation will allow you to create duplicate users if you have not defined the appropriate constraint within your Neo4j database!**

If you would like to prevent duplicate `User` nodes from being created with the same `username`, for example, you can log in to the Neo4j Browser at [http://localhost:7474/browser/](http://localhost:7474/browser/) and execute the following Cypher command:

`CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (node:User) ASSERT (node.username) IS UNIQUE;`

#### EXAMPLE: Query all of the users in our database

In this example, let's count how many `User` nodes exist in our Neo4j database - and see each user's `username` and `created` details:

```gql
{
  usersCount
  users {
    username
    created
  }
}
```

You should see a response similar to:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "usersCount": 1,
    "users": [
      {
        "username": "therobbrennan",
        "created": "2021-09-05T02:24:54.078Z"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

![nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-03-query-all-users.png](nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-03-query-all-users.png)

### Resources

If you are looking for a great overview on setting up a Next.js GraphQL API, I strongly recommend William Lyon's [blog post](https://www.lyonwj.com/blog/graphql-server-next-js-neo4j-aura-vercel) at [https://www.lyonwj.com/blog/graphql-server-next-js-neo4j-aura-vercel](https://www.lyonwj.com/blog/graphql-server-next-js-neo4j-aura-vercel).

Commit message:

Add a link to the demo app with a screenshot

README.md, after:

# Welcome

This project is a simple example of how to work with [Neo4j](https://neo4j.com), [Next.js](https://nextjs.org), and the map visualization library [React Leaflet](https://react-leaflet.js.org) within a [Docker](https://www.docker.com) environment.

You can view the [DEMO](https://dockerized-neo4j-with-nextjs-leaflet.vercel.app) at [https://dockerized-neo4j-with-nextjs-leaflet.vercel.app](https://dockerized-neo4j-with-nextjs-leaflet.vercel.app)

![nextjs/__screenshots__/demo-01.png](nextjs/__screenshots__/demo-01.png)

All you need to have installed on your system to run this example is [Docker](https://www.docker.com).

If you do not have [Docker](https://www.docker.com) installed on your development system, you can download and install the freely available [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

## Getting started

**IMPORTANT: Before starting this project, please be sure to copy `nextjs/.env.sample` to `nextjs/.env.local`**

To spin up your Dockerized Neo4j and Next.js project:

```sh
# Use the existing Docker images on your system
$ npm run dev

# OR #

# Force a clean build to ensure your instances are using the latest code
$ npm run dev:clean
```

### Neo4j

Once you have started your Dockerized project, you can access the Neo4j Browser at [http://localhost:7474/browser/](http://localhost:7474/browser/) - using the following credentials:

- Username: `neo4j`
- Password: `letmein`

![neo4j/v4.x.x/__screenshots__/neo4j-browser-login.png](neo4j/v4.x.x/__screenshots__/neo4j-browser-login.png)

Once you've logged in, you are free to explore your Dockerized Neo4j instance.

![neo4j/v4.x.x/__screenshots__/neo4j-browser-example.png](neo4j/v4.x.x/__screenshots__/neo4j-browser-example.png)

#### OPTIONAL: Use Cypher text file(s) to seed your database

If you would like to have your database load a pre-defined series of Cypher commands - such as the example at `neo4j/v4.x.x/__seed__/db.cypher` - simply uncomment the following in `neo4j/v4.x.x/Dockerfile`:

```sh
# neo4j/v4.x.x/Dockerfile

...
# COPY ./__seed__/*.cypher /var/lib/neo4j/import/
...

```

This will ensure that your Cypher file(s) are copied and then processed by the `neo4j/v4.x.x/wrapper.sh` script when building your Neo4j instance.

### Next.js

An example [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) application has been created so that we can use the [Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql-manual/current/) to create our GraphQL API.

Once you have started your Dockerized project, you can access the Next.js GraphQL API at [http://localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql)

#### EXAMPLE: Create a query to verify our GraphQL API is online

Let's use the `ping` query that we have defined in our GraphQL schema:

```gql
{
  ping {
    message
    timestamp
  }
}
```

You should see a response similar to:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "ping": {
      "message": "Pong",
      "timestamp": "2021-09-05T02:23:55.000Z"
    }
  }
}
```

![nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-01-ping.png](nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-01-ping.png)

#### EXAMPLE: Create a new User

To create a new `User` using our GraphQL API, we will use the `createUsers` mutation that was automatically created for us with the [Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql-manual/current/):

```gql
mutation {
  createUsers(input: { username: "therobbrennan" }) {
    users {
      username
      created
    }
  }
}
```

You should see a response similar to:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "createUsers": {
      "users": [
        {
          "username": "therobbrennan",
          "created": "2021-09-05T02:24:54.078Z"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

![nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-02-create-user.png](nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-02-create-user.png)

**IMPORTANT: This mutation will allow you to create duplicate users if you have not defined the appropriate constraint within your Neo4j database!**

If you would like to prevent duplicate `User` nodes from being created with the same `username`, for example, you can log in to the Neo4j Browser at [http://localhost:7474/browser/](http://localhost:7474/browser/) and execute the following Cypher command:

`CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (node:User) ASSERT (node.username) IS UNIQUE;`

#### EXAMPLE: Query all of the users in our database

In this example, let's count how many `User` nodes exist in our Neo4j database - and see each user's `username` and `created` details:

```gql
{
  usersCount
  users {
    username
    created
  }
}
```

You should see a response similar to:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "usersCount": 1,
    "users": [
      {
        "username": "therobbrennan",
        "created": "2021-09-05T02:24:54.078Z"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

![nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-03-query-all-users.png](nextjs/__screenshots__/graphiql-example-03-query-all-users.png)

### Resources

If you are looking for a great overview on setting up a Next.js GraphQL API, I strongly recommend William Lyon's [blog post](https://www.lyonwj.com/blog/graphql-server-next-js-neo4j-aura-vercel) at [https://www.lyonwj.com/blog/graphql-server-next-js-neo4j-aura-vercel](https://www.lyonwj.com/blog/graphql-server-next-js-neo4j-aura-vercel).
